GREAT BRITAIN'S OPIUM MONOPOLY


In a book shop in Shanghai, we came upon a small book with an arresting
title, "Drugging a Nation," by Samuel Merwin. It was published in 1908,
eight years before we chanced upon it, shabby and shop worn, its pages
still uncut. The people of Shanghai, the great International Settlement
of this largest city and most important seaport of China, did not have
to read it. They knew, doubtless, all that its pages could disclose.
We, however, found it most enlightening. In it there is this
description of the British Opium Monopoly:

"In speaking of it as a 'monopoly' I am not employing a cant word for
effect. I am not making a case. That is what it is officially styled in
a certain blue book on my table which bears the title, 'Statement
Exhibiting the Moral and Material Progress of India during the year
1905-'6,' and which was ordered by the House of Commons to be printed,
May 10, 1907.... Now to get down to cases, just what this Government
Opium Monopoly is, and just how does it work? An excerpt from the
rather ponderous blue book will tell us. It may be dry but it is
official and unassailable. It is also short.

"'The opium revenue'--thus the blue book--'is partly raised by a
monopoly of the production of the drug in Bengal and the United
provinces, and partly by the levy of a duty on all opium imported from
native states.... In these two provinces, the crop is grown under the
control of a government department, which arranges the total area which
is to be placed under the crop, with a view to the amount of opium
required.'

"So much for the broader outline. Now for a few of the details: 'The
cultivator of opium in these monopoly districts receives a license, and
is granted advances to enable him to prepare the land for the crop, and
he is required to deliver the whole of the product at a fixed price to
opium agents, by whom it is dispatched to the government factories at
Patna and Ghazipur.'

"The money advanced to the cultivator bears no interest. The British
Indian government lends money without interest in no other cases.
Producers of crops other than opium are obliged to get along without
free money.

"When it has been manufactured, the opium must be disposed of in one
way and another; accordingly: 'The supply of prepared opium required
for consumption in India is made over to the Excise Department ... the
chests of "provision" opium, for export, are sold at monthly sales,
which take place at Calcutta.' For the meaning of the curious term,
'provision opium' we have only to read on a little further. 'The opium
is received and prepared at the government factories, where the
out-turn of the year included 8,774 chests of opium for the Excise
Department, about three hundred pounds of various opium alkaloids,
thirty maunds of medical opium; and 51,770 chests of provision opium
for the Chinese market.' There are about 140 pounds in a chest.... Last
year the government had under poppy cultivation 654,928 acres. And the
revenue to the treasury, including returns from auction sales, duties
and license fees, and deducting all 'opium expenditures' was nearly
$22,000,000."

As the blue book states, this opium is auctioned off once a month. At
that point, the British Government, as a government, washes its hands
of the business. Who buys the opium at these government auctions, and
what afterwards becomes of it? "The men who buy in the opium at these
monthly auctions and afterwards dispose of it are a curious crowd of
Parsees, Mohammedans, Hindoos and Asiatic Jews. Few British names
appear in the opium trade to-day. British dignity prefers not to stoop
beneath the taking in of profits; it leaves the details of a dirty
business to dirty hands. This is as it has been from the first. The
directors of the East India Company, years and years before that
splendid corporation relinquished the actual government of India,
forbade the selling of its specially-prepared opium direct to China,
and advised a trading station on the coast whence the drug might find
its way 'without the company being exposed to the disgrace of being
engaged in illicit commerce.'"

"So clean hands and dirty hands went into partnership. They are in
partnership still, save that the most nearly Christian of governments
has officially succeeded the company as party of the first part."

You will say, if the British Government chooses to deal in opium, that
is not our concern. It is most emphatically our concern. Once a month,
at these great auction sales, the British Government distributes
thousands of pounds of opium, which are thus turned loose upon the
world, to bring destruction and ruin to the human race. The buyers of
this opium are not agents of the British Government. They are merely
the distributors, through whom this drug is directed into the channels
of trade. The British Government derives a certain portion of its
revenue from the sale of opium, therefore depends upon these dealers to
find a market for it. They are therefore, as distributors, the
unofficial agents of the British Government, through whom it is sold
legitimately, or smuggled around the world. In seeking to eradicate the
drug evil, we must face the facts, and recognize clearly that the
source of supply is the British Government, through whose agents,
official and unofficial, it is distributed.

America, so they tell us, is now menaced by the drug evil. Now that
prohibition is coming into effect, we are told that we are now
confronted by a vice more terrible, far more deteriorating and
dangerous. If that is true, then we must recognize our danger and guard
against it. Some of the opium and morphia which reaches this country is
smuggled in; the rest is imported by the big wholesale drug houses.
There is an unlimited supply of it. As we have seen, the British
Government encourages poppy production, even to the extent of lending
money _without interest_ to all those who are willing to raise this
most profitable crop. The monopoly opium is sold once a month to the
highest bidders, and some of these highest bidders are unscrupulous men
who must find their markets how and where they can. That fact, of
course, is of no moment to the British Government. It is of deepest
concern to Americans, however. To the north of us we have the Dominion
of Canada. To the south, the No-Man's Land of Mexico. At the present
moment, the whole country is alarmed at the growing menace of the drug
habit, which is assuming threatening proportions.


